Enumeration:
Username: karen
Password: Password1
#All The Given Commands in The Enumeration Task#
The hostname command: will return the hostname of the target machine
uname -a : Will print system information giving us additional detail about the kernel used by the system. This will be useful when searching for any potential kernel vulnerabilities that could lead to privilege escalation.\
/proc/version may give you information on the kernel version and additional data such as whether a compiler (e.g. GCC) is installed.
Systems can also be identified by looking at the /etc/issue file ---> his file usually contains some information about the operating system but can easily be customized or changed
The ps (Process Status) command is an effective way to see the running processes on a Linux system
PID: The process ID (unique to the process)
TTY: Terminal type used by the user
Time: Amount of CPU time used by the process (this is NOT the time this process has been running for)
CMD: The command or executable running (will NOT display any command line parameter)
The “ps” command provides a few useful options.
ps -A: View all running processes
ps axjf: View process tree (see the tree formation until ps axjf is run below)
ps aux: The aux option will show processes for all users.
The env command will show environmental variables.
The target system may be configured to allow users to run some (or all) commands with root privileges. The sudo -l command can be used to list all commands your user can run using sudo.
The id command will provide a general overview of the user’s privilege level and group memberships.
/etc/passwd
Reading the /etc/passwd file can be an easy way to discover users on the system --> cat /etc/passwd4
history command can give us some idea about the target system and, albeit rarely, have stored information such as passwords or usernames.
The ifconfig command will give us information about the network interfaces of the system
This can be confirmed using the ip route command to see which network routes exist.
netstat -a: shows all listening ports and established connections.
netstat -at or netstat -au can also be used to list TCP or UDP protocols respectively.
netstat -l: list ports in “listening” mode. These ports are open and ready to accept incoming connections. This can be used with the “t” option to list only ports that are listening using the TCP protocol (below)
netstat -s: list network usage statistics by protocol (below) This can also be used with the -t or -u options to limit the output to a specific protocol.
netstat -tp: list connections with the service name and PID information, This can also be used with the -l option to list listening ports (below)
netstat -i: Shows interface statistics.
The netstat usage you will probably see most often in blog posts, write-ups, and courses is netstat -ano which could be broken down as follows;
-a: Display all sockets
-n: Do not resolve names
-o: Display timers

find Command : Searching the target system for important information and potential privilege escalation vectors can be fruitful. The built-in “find” command is useful and worth keeping in your arsenal.
Below are some useful examples for the “find” command.
Find files:
find . -name flag1.txt: find the file named “flag1.txt” in the current directory
find /home -name flag1.txt: find the file names “flag1.txt” in the /home directory
find / -type d -name config: find the directory named config under “/”
find / -type f -perm 0777: find files with the 777 permissions (files readable, writable, and executable by all users)
find / -perm a=x: find executable files
find /home -user frank: find all files for user “frank” under “/home”
find / -mtime 10: find files that were modified in the last 10 days
find / -atime 10: find files that were accessed in the last 10 day
find / -cmin -60: find files changed within the last hour (60 minutes)
find / -amin -60: find files accesses within the last hour (60 minutes)
find / -size 50M: find files with a 50 MB size

Find development tools and supported languages:
find / -name perl*
find / -name python*
find / -name gcc*

General Linux Commands: the given General linux commands in this room are :
find, locate, grep, cut, sort





